## Kinesis

1. Kinesis=event=1000 request
2. Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose is the easiest way to reliably load streaming data into data lakes, data stores, and analytics tools. It is a fully managed service that automatically scales to match the throughput of your data and requires no ongoing administration.
3. Shards scale linearly, so adding shards to a stream will add 1MB per second of ingestion, and emit data at a rate of 2MB per second for every shard added. Ten shards will scale a stream to handle 10MB (10,000 PUTs) of ingress, and 20MB of data egress per second".
4. Docker makes it easy to build and run distributed microservices architecures, deploy your code with standardized continuous integration and delivery pipelines, build highly-scalable data processing systems, and create fully-managed platforms for your developers. Docker also provides big data processing as a service. (https://aws.amazon.com/docker/).
5. Input – The streaming source for your application. You can select either a Kinesis data stream or a Kinesis Data Firehose data delivery stream as the streaming source. In the input configuration, you map the streaming source to an in-application input stream. The in-application stream is like a continuously updating table upon which you can perform the SELECT and INSERT SQL operations. In your application code, you can create additional in-application streams to store intermediate query results.
6. collect = kinesis
Data warehouse = redshift

## More:
1. Streaming data is data gathered from thousands of data sources sending data records simultaneously in small sizes.
2. Ex: purchase from online stores (amazon.com), stock prices, game data, social network data, geospatial data, iot sensor data, uber.com
3. Kinesis is the platform on AWS to send your streaming data to.
4. Makes easy to load, analyse streaming data, also providing you to build your own custom applications for your business needs.
5. 3 types:
- Kinesis stream
- Kinesis firehose
- Kinesis analytics.

## Kinesis stream
1. Producers to kinesis stream to consumers.
2. Consumers to dynamodbm,s3, emr, redshift
3. Streams consists of shards.
- 5 transactions per second for reads, up to max total data read rate of 2MB/sec and up to 1,000 records per second for writes, up to max total write data rate of 1MB/sec.
4. Data capacity of your stream ~ number of shards that you specify for the stream. Total capacity of stream is sum of capacities of its shards.

## Kinesis Firehose  - Redshift
1. Producers to Kinesis Firehose to S3 to Redshift
2. Kinesis Firehose - ElasticSearch
3. Producers to Kinesis Firehose to ElasticSearch cluster.

## Kinesis Analytics
1. Producers to analytics to S3, Redshift, Elastic cluster.

## Tips:
1. Diff between Kinesis stream and Firehose.
2. Understand what Kinesis analytics is.

## Web identity federation:
1. Lets you give your users access to AWS resources after they have successful authentication with web based identity provider like Amazon, Facebook and google.
2. Following successful authentication, user receives an authentication code from web ID provider, which they can trade for temporary AWS security credentials.
