## Virtual Private Cloud

1. Data never leave AWS network - VPC endpoint.
2. Latest generation of VPC endpoints used by AWS Systems manager are powered by Private link.
3. Eggress only for IPv6.
4. AWS Privatelink provides private connectivity between VPCs, AWS services, and on-premises applications, securely on the Amazon network. PII
5. VPC flog logs is a feature that enable to capture information about IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. 
6. VPC endpoint enables privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS private link without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection or AWS Direct Connect connection.
7. Flow logs is the only service that allows you to monitor the flow of Network IP addresses.
8. VPC peering is a communication within AWS accounts and internet access is not required.
9. You can specify allow rules but not deny rules.
10. A VPC endpoint enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network.
11. If you host a website on multiple Amazon EC2 instances, you can distribute traffic to your website across the instances by using an Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) load balancer.

More:

1. VPC is virtual data center in the cloud.
2. Gives complete control over your virtual networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, creation of subnets, config of route tables and network gateways.
3. Can create public facing subnet for your web servers that has access to internet.
4. Can leverage multiple layers of security, including security groups and NACL to help control access to EC2 instances in each subnet.
5. CIDR range visualizer gives you count of IP addresses in range.

What can be done with VPC?
1. Launch instances into subnet of your choice.
2. Assign custom IP address range in each subnet.
3. Configure route tables between subnets.
4. Much better security control over your AWS resources.

Features:
1. Default VPC: Allows to immediately depply instances. All subnest in default VPC has route out to internet.
2. VPC peering: 
 - Allows to connect one VPC to another via direct network route using private IP address.
 - Can peer VPC with other AWS accounts as well as with other VPC in same account.
 - Peering is star config. 1 central VPC peers with 4 others. No transitive peering.

 Tips:
 1. VPC is logical data center in AWS.
 2. Consists of IGWS(Virtual private gateways), Route tables, Network access control lists, subnets and security groups.
 3. 1 Subnet = 1 AZ.
 4. Security groups are STATEFUL, network access control lists are stateless.
 5. No Transitive peering.
 6. When you create VPC, default route table, NACL and security groups are created.
 7. It does not create IGW nor any subnets.
 8. Amazon reserves 5 IP addresses within your subnets.
 9. Can only have one internet gateway per VPC.
 10. Security groups cant span VPCs.
 11. US-EAST-1A in your account can be different from US-EAST-1A in your another AWS account. AZs are randomized.

 VPC flow logs:
 1. Enables to capture IP traffic information going to and from network interfaces in your VPC.
 2. Flow log data is stored using Cloudwatch logs.
 3. After creating flow log, you can view and retreive its data in Amazon cloudwatch logs.
 4. Can be created at 3 levels: VPC, Subnet and Network Interface level.
 5. Cannot enable flow logs for VPCs that are peered within your VPC unless peer VPC is in your account.
 6. Cannot tag a flow log.
 7. After creating flow log, cannot change its config.
 8. Not all IP traffic is monitored.

 VPC endpoints:
 1. Enables to connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by Privatelink.
 2. Endpoint are virtual devices.
 3. Horizontally scaled, redundant and highly available VPC components.
 4. Types:
  - Interface endpoints: 
  Elastic network interface with private IP address that serves as entry point for traffic destined to a supported device. Following services are supported:
  1. API Gateway
  2. Cloudformation
  3. Cloudwatch
  4. Cloudwatch events
  5. Cloudwatch logs
  6. Codebuild
  7. Config
  8. EC2 API
  9. Elastic load balancing API
  10. AWS Key management service
  11. Kinesis Data Streams
  12. Sagemaker and Sagemaker runtime
  13. Sagemaker notebook instance
  14. Secrets manager
  15. Security token service
  16. AWS Service catalog
  17. SNS
  18. SQS
  19. Systems manager
  
  - Gateway endpoints: supports S3 and DynamoDB
