## API Gateway

1. Lambda and API because it has to scale based on demand. SPOT instances do work for stateless apps, should be in a comparable price versus lambda but the issue is elasticity and how these instances are going to be available (or the lack of certainty they will).
2. Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that makes it easy for developers to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and secure APIs at any scale. With a few clicks in the AWS Management Console, you can create REST and WebSocket APIs that act as a “front door” for applications to access data, business logic, or functionality from your backend services, such as workloads running on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), code running on AWS Lambda, any web application, or real-time communication applications.
API Gateway handles all the tasks involved in accepting and processing up to hundreds of thousands of concurrent API calls, including traffic management, authorization and access control, monitoring, and API version management. API Gateway has no minimum fees or startup costs.

Scenes:

1. Company developing new stateless web service with low memory requirements. Service needs to scale based on demand.
 - What is most cost effective solution?
       - **Deploy the application onto AWS Lambda with access through Amazon API Gateway**

2. App running on AWS lambda requires an API key to access third party service. 
 - The key must be stored securely with audited access to Lambda function only.
 - What is the most secure way to store the key?
       - **As a secure string in AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store**

3. SA must select most cost efficient architecture for a service that responds to web requests.
 - These web requests are small and query DynamoDB table.
 - The request rate ranges from zero to several hundred each second, without any predictable patterns.
 - What is most cost efficient architecture for this service?
       - **API Gateway/AWS Lambda**

3. Company plans to migrate a website to AWS to use serverless architecture. Website contains both static and dynamic content and is accessed by users across the world.
 - The website should maintain sessions for returning users to improve the user experience.
 - Which service should SA use for cost efficient solution with Lowest latency?
       - **Amazon S3, Amazon CloudFront, AWS Lambda, Amazon API Gateway, and Amazon DynamoDB.**
CloudFront is needed because they want to cache static & dynamic content... this is why.

4. Part of migration strategy, SA needs to analyze workloads that can be optimized for performance and cost.
 - SA has identified a stateless app that serves static content as potential candidate to move to cloud. 
 - SA has flexibility to choose an identity sol between facebook, twitter and amazon.
 - Which AWS sol offers flexibility and ease of use, and the LEAST operational overhead for this migration?
       - **Use Amazon Cognito for managing identities, and migrate the application to run on Amazon S3, Amazon API Gateway, and AWS Lambda.**
Amazon Cognito identity pools integrate with Facebook to provide federated authentication for your mobile application users.
EC2 vs Lambda = Least operation overhead - go for server less i.e. Lambda

5. Company has popular multi-player mobile game hosted in its on-premises datacenter. 
 - The current infrastructure can no longer keep up with the demand and the company is considering a move to the cloud.
 - Which solution should a SA recommend as the MOST scalable and cost-effective solution to meet these needs?
       - **AWS Lambda and Amazon API Gateway**
  API Gateway handles all the tasks involved in accepting and processing up to hundreds of thousands of concurrent API calls, including traffic management, authorization and access control, monitoring, and API version management. API Gateway has no minimum fees or startup costs. You pay only for the API calls you receive and the amount of data transferred out and, with the API Gateway tiered pricing model, you can reduce your cost as your API usage scales.

## More:

1. Users->API Gateway-> Lambda, EC2 and DynamoDB
2. Exposes HTTPs endpoints to define RESTful API.
3. Severless-ly connects to services like lambda and DynamoDB.
4. Send each API endpoint to different target.
5. Run efficiently with lost cost.
6. Scale effortlessly.
7. Connect to Cloudwatch to log all requests for monitoring.
8. Maintain multiple versions of your API.
9. Track and control usage by API key.

## Configure:
1. Define an API (container)
2. Define resources and nested resources (URL paths)
3. For each resource:
- Select supported HTTP methods (verbs)
- Set security
- Choose target(such as EC2, lambda, dynamodb etc)
- Set request and response transformations.

## Deploy:

1. Set API to stage.
2. Uses API gateway domain by default.
3. Can use custom domain.
4. Now supports AWS certificate manager. Free SSL/TLS certs.

## Same origin policy:

1. Under the policy, web browser permits scripts contained in a first web page to access data in second web page but only if both web pages have same origin.
2. This is done to prevent cross-site scripting (CSS) attacks.
- enforced by web browsers.
- ignored by tools like postman and curl.

## CORS:

1. Is one way the server at the other end (not client code in the browser) can relax the same-origin policy.
2. It is a mechanism that allows restricted resources(e.g fonts) on the web page  to be requested from another domian outside the domain from which first resource was served.

## Tips:
1. It has caching capabilities to increase performance.
2. Low cost and scales automatically.
3. Can throttle API gateway to prevent attacks.
4. Can log results to cloudwatch.
5. CORS is enforced by client.

## API Gateway caching
1. Enable API gateway caching in API gateway to cache your endpoint response.
2. With caching, can reduce number of calls made to your endpoint.
3. When you enable caching for stage, API gateway caches responses from your endpoint for specified time to live (TTL) period in seconds.
4. API gateway then responds to the request by looking up the endpoint response from the cache instaead of making requests to your endpoint.

