## NAT Gateway

1. Note If you have resources in multiple Availability Zones and they share one NAT gateway, in the event that the NAT gateway’s Availability Zone is down, resources in the other Availability Zones lose internet access. To create an Availability Zone-independent architecture, create a NAT gateway in each Availability Zone and configure your routing to ensure that resources use the NAT gateway in the same Availability Zone. 
2. Connect to the Internet using Network Address Translation (private subnets) – Private subnets can be used for instances that you do not want to be directly addressable from the Internet. Instances in a private subnet can access the Internet without exposing their private IP address by routing their traffic through a Network Address Translation (NAT) gateway in a public subnet.
3. Reason, The web Servers in web subnet can get Internet via ELB or IGW but private cannot go through ELB and IGW. They either need Nat Instance or Nat Gateway. since NAT instances are not mentioned then it must be Nat Gateway.
4. you must always create your NAT gateway in a public subnet that already has a defined route to 0.0.0.0/0 through an internet gateway. and assign an Elastic IP to the NAT gateway.
5. You have a limit on the number of NAT gateways you can create in an Availability Zone. 

Scenarios:

1. Application runs on EC2 instance in multiple AZ behind an ALB.
 - Load balancer is in public subnets, EC2 instances are in private subnets and must not be accessible from the internet.
 - EC2 instance must call external services on the internet.
 - If one AZ become unavailable, remaining EC2 instances must still be able to call external services.
    - **Create a NAT gateway in each AZ. Update the route tables for each private subnet to direct internet-bound traffic to the NAT gateway.**

2. Design high performance computing job running on EC2 instances in private subnets.
 - To allow application to download patches, infrastructure must be altered to allow instances to access external endpoints.
 - Changes to infrastructure must involve minimal ongoing systems management effort. 
 - What allows EC2 instances to access endpoint while meeting these requirements?
    - **NAT gateway**

3. Application has components running in public and private subnet. Components within the private subnet must connect to the internet to receive updates. How to do this without moving components into public subnet.
       - **Add a NAT gateway to the public subnet and update the private subnet route table.**

4. Convert single point of failure to highly available configuration. Current architecture contains Amazon EC2 instances with databases running in one AZ. Web tier resources have not been given public address, but still need internet access. Which solution to use to maintain high availability?
       - **Use ELB Classic Load Balancer with the web tier. Deploy EC2 instances in two Availability Zones and enable Multi-AZ RDS. Deploy NAT gateways in both Availability Zones.**

5. SA is designing application in AWS. Architect must not expose application or database tier over Internet for security reasons. App must be low-cost and have scalable front end. Database and application tier must have only one way internet access to download software and patch updates. Which solution helps to meet these requirements?
       - **Use an ELB Classic Load Balancer as the front end for the application tier, and a NAT Gateway to allow Internet access for private resources.**

6. App has web tier that runs on EC2 instances in public subnet. App tier instances run in private subnets across two AZ. All traffic is IPv4 only, each subnet has its own custom route table. New feature requires that app tier instances can call external service over the internet, however they must still not be accessible to internet traffic. What should be done to allow app servers to connect to internet maintain high availability and minimize admin overhead?
       - **Add an Amazon NAT Gateway to each public subnet. Alter each private subnet's route table to include a route from 0.0.0.0/0 to the NAT Gateway in the same Availability Zone.**

7. SA is working on PCI compliant architecture that needs to call an external service providers API. The external provider requires IP whitelisting to verify calling party. How should SA provide external party with IP addresses for whitelisting?
    - **Deploy the Lambda function in private subnets and route outbound traffic through a NAT gateway. Provide the NAT gateway's Elastic IP address to the external service provider.**

8. A company has instances in private subnets that require outbound access to the Internet. This requires:

    - **Updating the route table associated with the subnet to point internet traffic through a NAT gateway.**

9. SA is building multi-tier website. The web servers will be in public subnet, and the DB server will be in private subnet. Only web servers can be accessed from internet. DB servers must have internet access for software updates. Which solution meets the requirements?
    - **Use a NAT Gateway.**

10. SA is designing a web app. The web and app tiers need to access the Internet, but they cannot be accessed from the Internet. Which of the following steps is required?
    - **Launch a NAT gateway in the public subnet and add a route to it from the private subnet.**

11. SA plans to migrate NAT instances to NAT gateway. SA has NAT instances with scripts to manage high availability. What is the MOST efficient method to achieve similar high availability with NAT gateway?
    - **Launch a NAT gateway in each Availability Zone.**

You have a limit on the number of NAT gateways you can create in an Availability Zone. For more information, see Amazon VPC Limits.

12. Internet facing multi-tier web app must be highly available. ELB CLB is deployed in front of the web tier. EC2 instances at the web app tier are deployed evenly across two AZ. DB is deployed using multi AZ. A NAT instance is launched for EC2 instances and DB resources to access the internet. These instances are not assigned with public IP addresses. Which component poses a potential single point of failure in this architecture? 
    - **NAT instance**

13. Application servers deployed in private subnet need to integrate with third party service via internet. Changes to provide outbound internet connectivity in VPC without inbound internet connectivity to application servers.
       - **Create a NAT Gateway without attaching an Internet Gateway to the VPC.**



## More:

1. When creating NAT instance, disable source/destination check on the instance.
2. NAT instance must be in public subnet.
3. There needs a route out of private subnet to the NAT instance, in order for this to work.
4. Behind security group.
5. Redundant inside AZ.
6. Preferred by enterprise.
7. Starts at 5Gbps and scale up to 45Gbps.
8. No need to patch.
9. Not associated with security groups.
10. Auto assigned a public IP address.
11. No need to disable source/destination IP checks.
12. If we have resources in multiple AZ and they share one NAT gateway, in the event that NAT gateway AZ is down, resources in other AZ lose internet access.
13. To create AZ independent architecture, create NAT gateway in each AZ and configure your routing to ensure that resources use the NAT gateway in the same AZ.

## AMIs:
1. Select AMI based on region, OS, Architecture(32/64), launch permissions, storage for root device(Instance store), Ephemeral storage, EBS backed volumes.

## EBS vs Instance store volumes:
1. All AMIs are categorized as either backed by EBS or backed by instance store.
2. For EBS volumes: root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an Amazon EBS volume created from EBS snapshot.
3. For instance store volumes: root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an instance store volume created from template stored in S3.


## NAT instance vs NAT gateway
1. NAT instance:
 - Disable source/destination checks on instance.
 - Must be in public subnet.
 - Route out to private subnet to NAT instance, for this to work.
 - Behind security group.

2. NAT Gateways:
 - No need to disable source/destination checks
 - Not associated with security groups.
 - Redundant inside AZ.
 - Starts at 5Gbps and scales currently to 45Gbps.
 - Automatically assigned public IP address.
 - Remember to update your route tables.

