## Cloudfront OAI

1. CDN offered by AWS. 
2. CDN provides a globally distributed network of proxy servers with cache content, such as web videos or other bulky media, more locally to customers, thus improving access speed for downloading the content.
3. Website serves millions of users globally.
4. Minimize/Reduce data transfer cost.
5. More cost effective for more frequently accessed objects.
6. Host static website in S3 bucket.
7. Deliver your entire website or application including static, dynamic, streaming and interactive content.
8. Users located in many places across the world.
9. Cache option for cloudfront which cache static and dynamic content is the best option.
10. Location wise content delivery is already enabled.
11. Most cost effective than S3 transfer for frequently accessed objects.
12. Improve image load time.
13. No cost of data transfer between S3 and CloudFront.
14. Cloudfront can access bucket on behalf of requestors.
15. No cost of data transfer between S3 and cloudfront.
16. Cache option of cloud front in best solution.
17. OAI: Content is available for 14 days before user is denied access.
18. Allow users to purchase premium and shared content in S3 bucket.
19. Restrict access with least operational overhead.

Scenes:

1. Org uses S3 to store video content via the website.
    - Org has right to deliver this content to users within its own country and needs to restrict access.
    - Ensure files are accessible only from within the country.

2. Company runs a static website served through cloudfront.
    - Storing website content in S3 instead of EBS.
       - **S3 is an origin for cloud front.**
       - **EBS volumes need EC2 instances behind an ELB load balancer to be an origin.**

3. Website runs on EC2 instances behind ELB ALB.
    - Instances run in EC2 auto scaling group across multiple AZ.
    - Every night, auto scaling group doubles in size.
    - Traffic shows that users in particular region requesting same static content stored locally on EC2 instances.
    - How can SA reduce need to scale and improve app performance for users.
        - **Create cloudfront distribution for the site and redirect user traffic to the distribution.**

4. Retail company runs on EC2 instances behind ALB. Instances run in EC2 auto scaling group.
    - Images are stored in S3 bucket using custom domain name.
    - During flash sale with 10,000 simultaneous users, some images on website are not loading.
    - How to improve performance?
       - **Config cloud front with S3 bucket as origin.**

5. SA needs to design a solution that allows web devs to deploy static web content without managing server infrastructure.
    - All web content must be accessed over HTTPS without custom domain name.
    - Sol be scalable as company grows.
    - Which provides most cost effective solution?
      - **Cloudfront with S3 bucket origin.**

6. Company needs to expand web services from us-east-1 to ap-southeast-1.
    - Company stores large amount of static content on its web and recently received complaints about slow loading speeds and website timing out.
    - What can be done to meet expansion goal and also addressing latency and timeout issues?
      - **Use S3 to store static content and configure Amazon Cloudfront distribution.**

7. Company creating web app allows customers to view photos in their web browsers.
    - Web is hosted in us-east-1 on EC2 instances behind an ALB.
    - Users will be located in many places around the world.
    - Which sol provides all users with fastest photo viewing experience.
       - **Enable cloudfront for website and specify ALB as the origin.**

8. Company has application that uses Cloudfront for content hosted on S3 bucket.
    - After unexpected refresh, users are still seeing old content.
    - Which step SA take to ensure new content is displayed?
       - **Change TTL value for removing the old objects.**

9. Company has website on premises.
    - Website has mix of static and dynamic content, but users experience latency when loading static files.
    - Which AWS service can help reduce latency?
       - **CloudFront with onpremises servers as the origin.**

10. Reduce compute costs due to serving high amounts of static web content.
    - How can web server architecture be designed to be MOST cost efficient?
       - **Create CloudFront distribution to pull static content from S3 bucket.**

11. Company using S3 bucket in us-west-2 to serve videos to their customers.
    - Customers are located all around the world and videos are requested a lot during peak hours.
    - Customers in Europe complain about slow downloaded speeds, and during peak hours, customers in all locations report experiencing HTTP 500 errors. 
    - What can SA do to address these issues?
       - **Cache the web content with CloudFront and use all Edge locations for content delivery.**

12. Ability to handle higher volumes. Web tier is cost-optimized.
       - **Launch EC2 instances in an Auto scaling group behind an ELB.**
       - **Create an CloudFront distribution pointing to static content in S3.**

13. Company is launching new static web on S3 and cloud front.
       - **Ensure all request goes through cloudfront.**

14. SA is asked to deliver video content on S3 to specific users from cloudfront restricting access by unauthorized users.
       - **Use OAI for cloudfront to access private S3 objects and select Restruct Viewer access option in Cloudfront cache behavior to use Signed URLs.**

15. Company wants to improve latency by hosting images in S3 bucket.
  - Need to restrict access to S3 bucket allowing cloud front to continue proper functionality.
  - Making bucket private to restrict access with LEAST operational overhead.
       - **Update the bucket policy to grant access to it.**
       - **Create CloudFront origin access identity.**
