## Route 53

1. MultiValue Answer Routing would fit to random queries with health checks.
2. You can use the cloudfront with Route 53 Geolocation Routing. But the location wise content delivery is already enabled in cloudfront, so geolocation policy wont help that much. If you are not using cloudfront and you want to distribute traffic based on user location, then you can use Route53
3. For an active-active system, Geolocation, Geoproximity, Latency, Multivalue, or Weighted policies would work.
https://medium.com/dazn-tech/how-to-implement-the-perfect-failover-strategy-using-amazon-route53-1cc4b19fa9c7

Scenes:

1. SA has five web servers serving requests for a domain. Which of the following Route 53 routing policies can distribute traffic randomly among all healthy web servers?
    - **Multivalue Answer**

2. SA is designing a solution for dynamic website, “example.com” that is deployed in two regions: Tokyo, Japan and Sydney, Australia. Architect wants to ensure that user located in Australia are directed to website deployed in sydney and users in Japan are redirected to website in tokyo when they browse to example.com. Which service should the architect use to achieve this goal with LEAST administrative effort?
    - **Amazon Route 53**

3. Company is designing a failover strategy in Route 53 for its resources between two AWS regions. Company must have ability to route users traffic to the region with least latency, and if both regions are healthy, Route 53 should route traffic to resources in both regions. Which strategy should SA recommend?
    - **Configure active-active failover using Route 53 latency DNS records.**

4. Company is launching a static website using zone apex(mycompany.com). The company wants to use Route 53 for DNS. Which steps should the company perform to implement scalable and cost-effective solution?
    - **Serve the website from an Amazon S3 bucket, and map a Route 53 alias record to the website endpoint.**
    - **Create a Route 53 hosted zone, and set the NS records of the domain to use Route 53 name servers.**

5. SA is designing a web app that will be hosted on EC2 instances in public subnet. The web app uses mySQL DB in private subnet. DB should be accessible to DBA. Which of the following SA should recommend?
    - **Create a bastion host in a public subnet, and use the bastion host to connect to the database.**
    - **Create an IPSec VPN tunnel between the customer site and the VPC, and use the VPN tunnel to connect to the database.**


More:

Route 53 returns all values to a user in random order.

1. Simple routing:
 - One record with multiple IP addresses

2. Weighted routing:
 - Split your traffic based on different weights assigned.
 Ex: 10% traffic to US-EAST-1, 90% traffic to EU-WEST-1
 Tips: Can set health checks on individual record sets.
 If record set fails health check, it is removed from Route53 until it passes health check.
 Set SNS notification to alert you if health check fails.

3. Latency based routing:
 - Route your traffic based on lowest network latency for your end user
 Tips: Route53 will send traffic to EU-WEST-2 as it has much lower latency than AP-SOUTHEAST-2.

4. Failover Routing Policy:
 - When you want to create active/passive setup.
 - Primary site to setup in EU-WEST-2 and secondary DR site to be set up in AP-SOUTHEAST-2.
 - Route53 monitors health of your primary site using health check.
 Tips: Route53 sends traffic to AP-SOUTHEAST-2 due to detected failure in EU-WEST-2.

5. Geolocation Routing policy:
 - Let you choose where traffic to be sent based on geographical location of your user.
 - Tips: Route53 will send European customers to EU-WEST-1 and US customers to US-EAST-1.

6. Geoproximity routing (Traffic flow only)
 - Route traffic to your resources based on geographical location of your users and resources.
 - Choose to route more traffic or less to given resource by specifying a value known as bias.
 - Bias expands or shrinks size of the geographic region from which traffic is routed to a resource.

7. Multivalue answer policy
 - Lets you configure Amazon Route 53 to return multiple values such as IP address for your web servers in response to DNS queries.
 - Lets you check health of each resource, so Route 53 returns only values for healthy resources.
 - Similar to simple routing however it allows to put health checks on each record set.

