## Cloudwatch

1. Must include a two minute warning.

2. Memory -> only custom cloudwatch.

3. Cloudtrail logs Api calls.

4. You can configure Amazon CloudWatch Events to invoke a Lambda action in response to suspicious or unexpected behavior in your AWS environment detected by Amazon GuardDuty.

5. The unified CloudWatch agent enables you to do the following:
Collect more system-level metrics from Amazon EC2 instances across operating systems. The metrics can include in-guest metrics, in addition to the metrics for EC2 instances. The additional metrics that can be collected are listed in Metrics Collected by the CloudWatch Agent.

6. There are 2 main types of monitoring you can do on AWS EC2 Instances as follows
✑ Basic Monitoring for Amazon EC2 instances: Seven pre-selected metrics at five-minute frequency and three status check metrics at one-minute frequency, for no additional charge.
✑ Detailed Monitoring for Amazon EC2 instances: All metrics available to Basic Monitoring at one-minute frequency, for an additional charge. Instances with
Detailed Monitoring enabled allows data aggregation by Amazon EC2 AMI ID and instance type.

## More:

1. Monitoring device to monitor your AWS resources and apps on AWS.
2. Monitors performance.
3. Monitors things like: 
 - Compute (EC2 instance, Auto scaling groups, ELB, Route 53, Health checks)
 - Storage and content delivery (EBS volumes, storage gateways, cloudfront)
4. Cloudwatch with EC2 monitors events every 5 mins by default.
5. Can have 1 min intervals by turning on detailed monitoring.
6. It creates awesome dashboards to see what is going on in your AWS environments.
7. Alarms: Allow to set alarms to notify when particular threshold is hit.
8. Events: cloudwatch events helps to respond to state changes in AWS resources.
9. Logs: helps to aggregate, monitor and store logs.
10. Cloudwatch monitors performance.
