## ElasticCache

1. Session data - Elasticache.
2. Enabling ElastiCache Multi-AZ with automatic failover on your Redis cluster (in the API and CLI, replication group) improves your fault tolerance. This is true particularly in cases where your cluster's read/write primary cluster becomes unreachable or fails for any reason. Multi-AZ with automatic failover is only supported on Redis clusters that support replication
3. Scheduled Instances are a good choice for workloads that do not run continuously, but do run on a regular schedule. For example, you can use Scheduled Instances for an application that runs during business hours or for batch processing that runs at the end of the week.
If you require a capacity reservation on a continuous basis, Reserved Instances might meet your needs and decrease costs.

Scenes:

1. Website keeps a record of user actions using GUID(globally unique identifier) retrieved from amazon aurora in place of username within the audit record. GUID content must not leave the Amazon VPC.
 - With increase in web traffic, web servers and Aurora read replica has also increased to keep up with the user record reads for the GUID.
 - To reduce read replica number while improving performance.
    - **Deploy a Amazon ElastiCache for Redis server into the infrastructure and store the user name and GUID there. Retrieve GUID from ElastiCache  when required.**
        (ElasticCache to improve performance and reduce read replica to retrieve GUID)

2. Design application that has millions of users. SA needs to store session data. Which option is most performant?
       - **Amazon ElastiCache**
       
3. Gaming application is heavily dependent on caching and uses ElastiCache for Redis. The application performance was recently degraded due to failure of cache node. What should SA recommend to minimize performance degradation in the future?
       - **Configure ElastiCache Multi-AZ with automatic failover**

4. Company wants to improve the performance of their web application after receiving customer complaints. An analysis concluded that the same complex database queries were causing increased latency. What should SA recommend to improve the applications performance?
       - **Integrate Amazon ElastiCache into the application.**

5. Social networking portal experiences latency and throughput issues due to an increased number of users. App servers use very large datasets from RDS DB, which creates a performance bottleneck on the DB. Which AWS service should be used to improve performance?
       - **Amazon ElastiCache**

6. Online retailer has series of flash sales occurring every friday. Sales traffic will increase during slaes only and platform handles increased load. Platform is three tier application. Web tier runs on EC2 instances behind ALB. Amazon Cloudfront is used to reduce web server load, but many requests for dynamic content must to go the web servers. What to do to web tier to reduce costs without impacting performance or reliability?
       - **Purchase scheduled Reserved Instances.**
"occurring every Friday" makes it a good candidate for scheduled reserved instances.

7. SA is building a wordpress based web application hosted on AWS using EC2. This application serves as a blog for international internet security company. App must be geographically redundant and scalable. It must separate EC2 web servers from private RDS DB, highly available and it must support dynamic port routing. Which combination of AWS services or capabilities meet these requirements?
    - **Amazon Route 53, Auto Scaling with an Application Load Balancer, and Amazon CloudFront**

8. SA is building a wordpress based web application hosted on AWS using EC2. This application serves as a blog for an international internet security company. App must be geographically redundant and scalable. It must separate EC2 web servers from private RDS DB, highly available and it must support dynamic port routing. Which combination of AWS services or capabilities meet these requirements?
       - **Amazon Route 53, Auto Scaling with an Application Load Balancer, and Amazon CloudFront**

## More:

1. Is a web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud.
2. Improve performance of apps by allowing to retrieve information from fast managed, in-memory cache.
3. Supports two open-source in memory caching engines. MEMCACHED and REDIS.
4. Increase DB and Webapps performance.
