## Amazon Aurora

## More:

1. MySQL compatible relational database engine that combines speed and availability of high end commercial DB with simplicity and cost effectiveness of open databases.
2. Provides up to 5 times better performance than MySQL at a price point one tenth that of commercial db while delivering similar performance and availability.
3. Start with 10GB, scales in 10GB increment up to 64TB(storage autoscaling)
4. Compute resources can scale up to 32vCPUs and 244GB of memory.
5. 2 copies of data is contained in each AZ, with min of 3AZ and 6 copies of your data.

## Scaling Aurora:

1. Handle up to 2 copies of loss of data without affecting DB write availability and up to 3 copies without affecting read availability.
2. Datablocks and disks are continuously scanned for errors and repaired automatically.
3. Aurora storage is self healing.

Types of replicas are two.
1. Aurora replicas (currently 15)
2. MySQL Read Replicas (currently 5)

## Features:

1. Number of replicas
- Aurora: 15
- MySQL: 5
2. ReplicationType
- Aurora: Asynchronous(ms)
- MySQL: Asynchronous(sec)
3. Performance impact on primary
- Aurora: low
- MySQL: high
4. Acts as failover target
- Aurora: Yes (no data loss)
- MySQL: Yes (potentially minutes of data loss)
5. Automated failover
- Aurora: Yes
- MySQL: No
6. Support for user friendly replication delay
- Aurora: No
- MySQL: Yes
7. Support for diff data or schema vs primary
- Aurora: No
- MySQL: Yes

## Backups with Aurora:
1. Automated backups are always enabled on Aurora DB instance. Backups do not impact DB performance.
2. You can also take snapshots with Aurora. This also does not impact on performance.
3. Can share Aurora snapshots with other AWS accounts.

