## SQS

1. FIFO will deliver atleast once and no duplicates.
2. Default queue could deliver twice can have duplicates.
3. Decoupling this element and having it processed by separate workers allows the rest of the system to not suffer the impact of the slow-running worker.
https://medium.com/@pablo.iorio/synchronous-and-asynchronous-aws-decoupling-solutions-1bbe74697db9

Scenes:

1. User submit requests to a service that takes several minutes to process. SA needs to ensure that these requests are processed at least once, and that the service has the ability to handle large increases in number of requests. How should these requirements be met?
    - **Put the requests into an Amazon SQS queue and configure Amazon EC2 instances to poll the queue**

2. App uses an SQS queue as transport mechanism to deliver data to a group of EC2 instances for processing. Application owner wants to add mechanism to archive incoming data without modifying application code on EC2 instances. How can this application be re-architected to archive the data without modifying the processing instances?
    - **Use an Amazon SNS topic to fan out the data to the SQS queue in addition to a Lambda function that records the data to an S3 bucket.**

3. An organization runs an online voting system for TV program. During broadcasts, hundreds of thousands of votes are submitted within minutes and sent too a front end fleet of auto-scaled EC2 instances. The EC2 instances push the votes to an RDBMS database. The DB is unable to keep up with front-end connection requests. What is the MOST efficient and cost effective way of ensuring that votes are processed in timely manner?
    - **Each front-end node should send votes to an Amazon SQS queue. Provision worker instances to read the SQS queue and process the message information into RDBMS database.**

4. Restaurant reservation application needs to maintain waiting list. When a customer tries to reserve a table, and none are available, customer must be put on waiting list, and the application must notify the customer when a table becomes free. What service should the SA recommend to ensure that the system respects the order in which the customer requests are put onto the waiting list?
    - **A FIFO queue in Amazon SQS**

5. SA is designing customer order processing applications that will likely have high usage spikes. What should the Architect do to ensure that customer orders are not lost before being written to an RDS database?
    - **Have the orders written into an Amazon SQS queue.**
    - **Scale the number of processing nodes based on pending order volume.**

6. Legacy app currently send messages through single EC2 instance, which then routes the messages to the appropriate destinations. The EC2 instance is a bottleneck and single point of failure, so company would like to address these issues. Which services could address this architectural use cases?
    - **Amazon SNS**
    - **Amazon SQS**

7. App relies on messages being sent and received in order. The volume will never exceed more than 300 transactions each second. Which service should be used?
    - **Amazon SQS**

8. Website experiences unpredictable traffic. During peak traffic times, the DB is unable to keep up with the write request.Which AWS service will help decouple the web app from DB?
    - **Amazon SQS**

9. Company has web application to make requests to backend API service. API service is behind ELB running on EC2 instances. Most API service endpoint calls finish quickly but one endpoint that makes calls to create objects  in external service takes a long time to complete. These long running calls are causing client timeouts and increasing overall system latency. What to do to minimize system throughput impact of slow-running endpoint?
    - **Use Amazon SQS to offload the long-running requests for asynchronous processing by separate workers.**

10. SA designs three-tier web application to allow customers to upload pictures from mobile application. App will generate thumbnail of picture and return message to user confirming image successfully uploaded. Generation of thumbnail may take up to 5 seconds. To provide a sub second response time to the customers uploading the images, SA wants to separate web tier from application tier. Which service allow the presentation tier to dispatch request to application tier?
    - **Amazon SQS**

11. When designing SQS message processing solution, messages in queue must be processed before maximum retention time has elapsed. Which actions will meet this requirement?
    - **Use Amazon EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling group with scaling triggered based on the queue length**
    - **Increase the SQS queue attribute for the message retention period**

12. An application publishes SNS messages in response to several events. An Lambda function subscribes to these messages. Occasionally the function will fail while processing a message, so the original event message must be preserved for root cause analysis. What architecture will meet these requirements without changing the workflow?
    - **Configure a Dead Letter Queue for the Amazon SNS topic.**

## More:
1. Is web service that gives you access to message queue that can be used to store messages while waiting for computer to process them.
2. Can decouple component of an application so they run independently, easing message management between components.
3. Any component of an application can store message in a failsafe queue. Message can contain up to 256KB of text in any format. 
4. Any component can later retrieve message programatically using SQS API.
5. Queue resolves issue that arises if the producer is producing work faster than consumer can process it, or if the producer or consumer are only intermittently connected to the network.
6. Standard queues lets you have unlimited number of transactions per second.
- It makes sure messages is delivered atleast once.
- However, more than one copy of message may be delivered our of order
- Provides best effort ordering which ensures that messages are delivered in same order as they are sent.
7. FIFO queues:
- Complement standard queues. 
- Exactly once processing and FIFO delivery.
- Order in which message are sent and received is strictly preserved.
- Message remains available until the consumer processes and deletes it.
- Duplicates are not introduced in queue.
- Limited to 300 transactions per second, but they have all capabilities or standard queues.


## Tips
1. Fast way to decouple your infrastructure
2. SQS is pull based not push based.
3. Message are 256Kb in size.
4. Message can be kept in the queue from 1 min to 14 days, default retention period being 4 days.
5. Standard SQS and FIFO SQS.
6. Standard order is not guaranteed and message can be delivered more than once.
7. FIFO order is strictly maintained and message are delivered only once.
8. Visibility time out is amount of time message is invisible in SQS queue after a reader picks up that message.
9. If job is not processed within that time, message will become visible again and another reader will process it. This can result in same message delivered twice.
10. Visibility time out max is 12 hrs.
11. SQS guarantee that your message will be processed at least once.
12. SQS long polling is the way to retreive messages from your SQS queues.
13. While regular short polling returns immediately, long polling doe snot return a response until the message arrives in a message queue, or the long poll times out.

## SWF:

1. Is a web service that makes it easy to collaborate work across distribubetd application components.
2. SWF enables applications for range of use cases, including media processing, web application backends, business process workflow and analytics pipelines to be designed as coordination of task.
3. Tasks represent invocation of various processing steps in an application which can be performed by executable code, web service calls, human actions and scripts.

## SQF actors:

1. Workflow starters:
- an application that can initiate (start) a workflow.
- could be your ecommerce website following placement of an order or mobile app searching for bus times.
2. Deciders:
- Control flow or activity tasks in a workflow execution.
- It something has finished in a workflow, decider decides what to do next.
3. Activity workers:
- Carry out activity tasks.

## SWF vs SQS
1. SQS has retention period of up to 14 days, SWF executions can last up to 1 year.
2. SWF presents task oriented API, SQS is message oriented API.
3. SWF ensures task is assigned only once and never duplicated.
4. SQS you need to handle duplicated messages and may also need to ensure message is processed only once.
5. SWF keeps track of all tasks and events in the application.
6. With SQS, you need to implement own application level tracking, esp if your application uses multiple queues.


## SNS vs SQS
1. Both messaging service in AWS.
2. SNS-Push and SQS is Pull

## SNS benefits tips
1. Instanataneous push based delivery (no polling)
2. Simple APIs and easy integration with applications.
3. Flexible message deliverya cross multiple transport protocols.
4. Inexpensive pay as you go model with no upfront costs.
5. Web based AWS management console offers the simplicity of the point and click interface.


