## EC2 Instance and Instance Types

1. "multicontainer-based" => EC2, path-base routing: ALB
2. Default Termination Policy
This section describes the default termination policy used by an Auto Scaling group when a scale-in event occurs. The default termination policy is designed to help ensure that your instances span Availability Zones evenly for high availability. The default policy is kept generic and flexible to cover a range of scenarios.
With the default termination policy, the behavior of the Auto Scaling group is as follows:
1) Determine which Availability Zone(s) have the most instances, and at least one instance that is not protected from scale in.
If there are multiple unprotected instances to choose from in the Availability Zone(s) with the most instances, an instance is selected for termination based on the following criteria (applied in the order shown).
3. Scaling based on a schedule enables you to scale your application in response to predictable changes in demand. To use scheduled scaling, you create scheduled actions, which tell Spot Fleet to perform scaling activities at specific times. When you create a scheduled action, you specify the Spot Fleet, when the scaling activity should occur, minimum capacity, and maximum capacity. You can create scheduled actions that scale one time only or that scale on a recurring schedule.
4. Sec groups are stateful and only accept Allow rules.
5. Security Group: Traffic can be restricted by any IP protocol, by service port, and source/destination IP address (individual IP or CIDR block).
6. Predictive Scaling, a feature of AWS Auto Scaling uses machine learning to schedule the right number of EC2 instances in anticipation of approaching traffic changes. Predictive Scaling predicts future traffic, including regularly-occurring spikes, and provisions the right number of EC2 instances in advance.
