## Network Load Balancer

1. Choose an Application Load Balancer when you need a flexible feature set for your web applications with HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
Choose a Network Load Balancer when you need ultra-high performance, TLS offloading at scale, centralized certificate deployment, support for UDP, and static IP addresses for your application.
2. Host-based routing use host conditions to define rules that forward requests to different target groups based on the host name in the host header. This enables ALB to support multiple domains using a single load balancer.
Path-based routing use path conditions to define rules that forward requests to different target groups based on the URL in the request. Each path condition has one path pattern. If the URL in a request matches the path pattern in a listener rule exactly, the request is routed using that rule.
3. The Health check is configured for ELB and failing, however the Auto Scaling needs to use the ELB health check, in addition to the system checks, to determine if the instance in healthy. Hence the Auto Scaling group needs to be updated to use ELB health check for terminating the instances.
4. Application Load Balancer. Keywords: Distribute based on URL = Path based routing for ALB
5. For example, previously Amazon S3 performance guidelines recommended randomizing prefix naming with hashed characters to optimize performance for frequent data retrieval. You no longer have to randomize prefix naming for performance, and can use sequential date-based naming for your prefixes.
