## Load Balancers

1. An application load balancer can take the place of multiple individual classic load balancers to load balance microservices (e.g. running on AWS ECS) saving costs.
Most importantly though, COST. Application Load Balancers cost $0.0252 per hour. Classic Load Balancers cost $0.028 per hour. A great article is here to refer: https://medium.com/cognitoiq/how-cognitoiq-are-using-application-load-balancers-to-cut-elastic-load-balancing-cost-by-90-78d4e980624b

Scenes:

1. Organization hosts 10 microservices, each in autoscaling group behind individual CLB. Each EC2 instance running at optimal load. Which will allow organization to reduce costs without impacting performance?
    - **Replace the Classic Load Balancers with a single Application Load Balancer.**

2. SA plans to migrate load balancer tier from data center to AWS. Several websites have multiple domains that require secure load balancing. SA decides to use Elastic Load balancing application load balancers. What is most efficient method to achieve secure communication?
       - **Create an SNI certificate and upload it to the Application Load Balancer**

3. Company needs to use AWS resources to expand capacity for a website hosted in on-premises data center. AWS resources will include load balancers, auto scaling and EC2 instances that will access on premises database. Network connectivity has been established but no traffic is going to AWS environment. How should Route 53 be configured to distribute load to AWS environment?
       - **Set up a weighted routing policy, distributing the workload between the load balancer and the on-premises environment.**
       - **Set up an A record to point the DNS name to the IP address of the load balancer.**

4. SA needs to deploy HTTP/HTTPS service on EC2 instances with support for WebSockets using load balancers. How can architect meet these requirements?
      - **Configure an Application Load Balancer.**
Http/Https are application layer (osi layer 7) 

## More:

1. Types:
       Application load balancer
       Network Load balancer
       Classic load balancer

## Application load balancer:
1. Best suited for load balancing HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
2. They operate at layer 7 and are application aware.
3. They are intelligent and you can create advanced request routing, sending specified requests to specific web servers.

## Network load balancer
1. Load balancing of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required.
2. Operating at the connection layer 4. 
3. Network load balancer is capable of handling millions of requests per second, while maintianing ultra low latency.
4. Use for extreme performance.

## Classic load balancer
1. Legacy elastic load balancer.
2. Can load balancer HTTP/HTTPs apps and use layer 7 specific features, such as x-forwarded and sticky sessions.
3. You can also use strict layer 4 load balancing for apps that purely rely on TCP protocol.
4. If your app stops responding, classic load balancer responds with a 504 error. This means app is having issue.
5. This could either be web server layer of at the database layer.
6. Sticky sessions:
       Classis load balancer routes each request independently of the registered EC2 instance with smallest load.
       Sticky sessions allow you to bind a user session to a specific EC2 instance.
       You can enable sticky session for application load balancer as well, by the traffic will be sent at target group level.
       Enable cross zone load balancing.

## Tips:
1. 504 errir means the gateway time out. This means the application not responding within idle timeout period.
2. Troubleshoot the application, is it the web server or database server.
3. If you need IPv4 address of your end user, look for X-Forwarded-for header.
4. Instances monitored by ELB are reported as : Inservice or out of service.
5. Health check checks the instance health by talking to it.
6. Load balancers have their own DNS Name. You are never given IP address.
7. Read the ELB FAQS for classic load balancers.

