## Lambda Functions

1. Improve fault tolerance of existing Python application.
2. Least operation overhead.
3. Serverless service.
4. AWS will manage provisioning and managing.
5. Redesign the process for high availability.
6. Lambda is triggered in 3 ways:
  a. API Gateway event.
  b. DynamoDB events.
  c. S3 events.

Scenes:

1. Prediction process needs access to trained models stored on S3 bucket.
  - Few seconds to process the image and make predictions.
  - Process not overly resource intensive.
  - Does not need specialized hardware.
  - Takes less than 512MB to run.
  - Most cost effective solution:
       - **Lambda Functions**

2. Lambda function needs access to RDS for SQL server instance.
  - It is against the company policy to store passwords in lambda functions.
  - How can SA enable lambda functions to retreive the DB password without violating company policy?
       - **Use AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store**


## More:

1. Ultimate abstraction layer
2. AWS lambda is a compute service where you can upload your code and create lambda functions.
3. AWS lambda takes care of provisioning and managing server that you use to run the code.
4. You dont need to worry about patching, scaling etc.
5. Can use lambda in following ways:
- Event driven compute service where Lambda runs your code in response to the event.
- These events can be changes to the data in S3 bucket or an DynamoDB table.
- Lambda supports:
    Node.js
    Java
    Python
    C#
    Go
    Powershell
6. Pricing is based on number of requests and duration.
7. No servers, continuous scaling and super super cheap.

## Tips:

1. Scales out(not up) automatically.
2. Functions are independent. 1 event is 1 function.
3. Lambda is serverless.
4. Know what services are serverless.
5. Lambda function can trigger other lambda functions.
6. 1 event can  =  x functions if functions trigger other functions.
7. Architecture can get extremely complicated, AWS X-ray allows you to debug what is happening.
8. Lambda can do things globally, you can use it to back up S3 buckets to other S3 buckets etc.
9. Know your triggers etc.
